We set up a skype call with Pedro to find out a lot of information that would help us in making the LHR work. It was a very enlightening conversation and I would like to update you all with the information we discussed. I will update any files and information Pedro sends us promply. 
(Thank you Pedro for all of your help thus far!!)

# Summarised Q&A with Pedro:

1. Where is there documentation for all of the aspects of this system (code, system diagrams, circuit diagrams, images, files, etc.)?

  May have sketches in notebooks.
  Models of system available in sketch up files. 

  [Smoothie board website](http://smoothieware.org/) has useful information regarding the CNC wiring, XYZ motor and limit switch code. 
  Smoothie board handles all CNC movement. A axis for plunger to choose volume to pipette is controlled through the smoothie board. All ejection, dispensing, and aspiration is accomplished with one motor. All motor uncertainty is 0.1 mm. 
  [Pronterface](http://www.pronterface.com/) used for doing cnc commands with macros and custom functions. 
  Did not use [Mix.bio](Mix.bio) to write protocols, that was only the [OpenTrons](https://opentrons.com/) people (Will and Chu).
  All code was custom, mostly g-code. Code was written to control the CNC, PCR, incubator lamp, and web functionality. Communicate with Luis Silva for more information about the web connectivity, remote operation and general code questions.

2. How much of the system worked? 
  * **CNC**: 
  
    CNC worked, grabbing and releasing pipette accessories (petri dish,  gel electrophoresis tray) worked, pipetting liquids worked. Main problem how to attach pipette to arm. Pipette attachment to accessories would be affected by the plastic portion of the pipette bending. Pipette not supported well by attachment to robot arm. 
  * **Laser/Camera System**: 
  
    Was used to align pipette during remote operation. Not directly implemented in the control loop for XYZ translation. 
  * **Fridge**: 
  
    Fridge circuit should connect to arduino. 
Fridge is meant to operate between -20˚C (temperature the fridge is intended to be used at) at the bottom and -5˚C near the top. 
Expected to have a jack inside of the fridge to move things closer to the top so they can thaw. 
Should have car jacks. 
  * **Incubator**:
  
    Function was used to turn the incubator on and off to maintain a set temperature. (Temperature sensor that we thought was used for the fridge is actually used to sense this temperature.)
  * **Light Boxes**: 
  
    Not fully implemented. Should use one camera for each lightbox to imagine petri dishes and gels. 
  * **PCR**: 
  
    PCR was connected to Raspberry pi to upload protocols. Check [OpenPCR](http://openpcr.org/) for documentation.
  * **Centrifuge**: 
  
    Not fully implemented. 
  * **Shaker**: 
    
    Not fully implemented. 
  * **Gel Electrophoresis**: 
    
    Not fully implemented. 
  * **Eppendorf tube capper**: 
  
    Separate system used to open and re-cap eppendorf tubes. Not fully implemented or integrated with LHR. 

3. How did the camera system work?

  Used two cameras for alignment with the lasers and gcode for x-y location. 
  Two or three cameras for streaming and remote operation, these were attached to the axes. 
  Two cameras for transiluminator.
  Cameras all plug into raspberry pi. 

4. How did you move eppendorf/PCR tubes ?

  Did not move eppendorf tubes, only PCR tubes. PCR tubes cut into two tube sections. One tube was used to attach the pipette in order to move both tubes around, the second tube was actually used to do labwork in. 
  
5. Were you any exernal resource to find protocols to run the robot with?

  Although OpenTrons used [Mix.bio](Mix.bio) protocols ours were all custom and written in g-code using pronterface. 

6. What are the other rasbperry pis, second PCR, and extra usb hub for?

  These are all redundancies in case any parts of the system need to be replaced. The system should only use one raspberry pi, one PCR, one USB hub, and one arduino. 

7. How do you connect the system to the internet?

  All internet capability should be through the raspberry pi (this suggests the pi should have a rasberry server on it). Contact Luis to for further questions about the internet connectivity. 

  

